pull_request_template.md, before:

# Description

Please include a summary of the changes and the related issue. Please also include relevant motivation and context. List any dependencies that are required for this change.

Closes #(issue_number)

**Type of change**

Please delete options that are not relevant.

- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to not work as expected)
- [ ] Documentation update

**How Has This Been Tested**

Please describe the tests that you ran to verify your changes. And ideally reference `tests`.

- [ ] Test A
- [ ] Test B

**Checklist**

- [ ] I have merged the original branch into my forked branch
- [ ] I added relevant documentation
- [ ] follows the style guidelines of this project
- [ ] I did a self-review of my code
- [ ] I added comments to my code
- [ ] I made corresponding changes to the documentation
- [ ] My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works

Commit message:

chore: Review PR template
Add Improvement and Refactor type of change

pull_request_template.md, after:

# Description

Please include a summary of the changes and the related issue. Please also include relevant motivation and context. List any dependencies that are required for this change.

Closes #<issue_number>

**Type of change**

(Please delete options that are not relevant. Remever to title the PR acording to the type of change)

- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to not work as expected)
- [ ] Refactor (change restructuring the codebase without changing functionality)
- [ ] Improvement (change adding some improvement to an existing functionality)
- [ ] Documentation update

**How Has This Been Tested**

(Please describe the tests that you ran to verify your changes. And ideally reference `tests`)

- [ ] Test A
- [ ] Test B

**Checklist**

- [ ] I have merged the original branch into my forked branch
- [ ] I added relevant documentation
- [ ] follows the style guidelines of this project
- [ ] I did a self-review of my code
- [ ] I added comments to my code
- [ ] I made corresponding changes to the documentation
- [ ] My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works
