docs/reference/webapp/explore_records.md, before:

# Explore records

![Explore view](../../_static/reference/webapp/explore_view.png)

If you want to explore your dataset or analyze the predictions of a model, the Rubrix web app offers a dedicated Explore mode.
The powerful search functionality and intuitive filters allow you to quickly navigate through your records and dive deep into your dataset.
At the same time, you can view the predictions and compare them to gold annotations.

You can access the _Explore mode_ via the sidebar of the [Dataset page](dataset.md).

## Search and filter

![Search bar and filters](../../_static/reference/webapp/search_bar.png)

The powerful search bar allows you to do simple, quick searches, as well as complex queries that take full advantage of Rubrix's [data models](../python/python_client.rst#module-rubrix.client.models).
In addition, the _filters_ provide you a quick and intuitive way to filter and sort your records with respect to various parameters, including predictions and annotations.
Both of the components can be used together to dissect in-depth your dataset, validate hunches, and find specific records.

You can find more information about how to use the search bar and the filters in our detailed [search guide](search_records.md) and [filter guide](filter_records.md).

```{note}
Not all filters are available for all [tasks](../../guides/task_examples.ipynb).
```

## Predictions and annotations

Predictions and annotations are an integral part of Rubrix's [data models](../python/python_client.rst#module-rubrix.client.models).
The way they are presented in the Rubrix web app depends on the [task](../../guides/task_examples.ipynb) of the dataset.

### Text classification

![Text classification view](../../_static/reference/webapp/text_classification.png)

In this task the predictions are given as tags below the input text.
They contain the label as well as a percentage score.
Annotations are shown as tags on the right together with a symbol indicating if the predictions match the annotations or not.

### Token classification

![Token classification view](../../_static/reference/webapp/token_classification.png)

In this task predictions and annotation are given as highlights in the input text.
Work in progress ...

### Text2Text

![Text2Text view](../../_static/reference/webapp/text2text.png)

In this task predictions and the annotation are given in a text field below the input text.
You can switch between prediction and annotation via the "_View annotation_"/"_View predictions_" buttons.
For the predictions you can find an associated score in the lower left corner.
If you have multiple predictions you can toggle between them using the arrows on the button of the record card.

## Metrics

![Metrics for Explore Mode](../../_static/reference/webapp/metrics_explore.png)

From the side bar you can access the [_Stats_ metrics](view_dataset_metrics.md#stats) that provide support for your analysis of the dataset.

Commit message:

docs(#1465): Updating reference docs (#1470)
* updating reference docs for the new release

* docs: update filter records reference

* several videos and images in different pages

* docs: update dataset and define_rules

* docs: update dataset text

* view dataset metrics- updated

* docs: update weak supervision video

* Update README.md

* more pics and updates

* docs: small fixes

Co-authored-by: dcfidalgo <david@recogn.ai>

docs/reference/webapp/explore_records.md, after:

# Explore records

![Explore view](../../_static/reference/webapp/explore_view.png)

If you want to explore your dataset or analyze the predictions of a model, the Rubrix web app offers a dedicated Explore mode.
The powerful search functionality and intuitive filters allow you to quickly navigate through your records and dive deep into your dataset.
At the same time, you can view the predictions and compare them to gold annotations.

You can access the _Explore mode_ via the sidebar of the [Dataset page](dataset.md).

## Search and filter

![Search bar and filters](../../_static/reference/webapp/search_bar.png)

The powerful search bar allows you to do simple, quick searches, as well as complex queries that take full advantage of Rubrix's [data models](../python/python_client.rst#module-rubrix.client.models).
In addition, the _filters_ provide you a quick and intuitive way to filter and sort your records with respect to various parameters, including predictions and annotations.
Both of the components can be used together to dissect in-depth your dataset, validate hunches, and find specific records.

You can find more information about how to use the search bar and the filters in our detailed [search guide](search_records.md) and [filter guide](filter_records.md).

```{note}
Not all filters are available for all [tasks](../../guides/task_examples.ipynb).
```

## Predictions and annotations

Predictions and annotations are an integral part of Rubrix's [data models](../python/python_client.rst#module-rubrix.client.models).
The way they are presented in the Rubrix web app depends on the [task](../../guides/task_examples.ipynb) of the dataset.

### Text classification

![Text classification view](../../_static/reference/webapp/text_classification.png)

In this task the predictions are given as tags below the input text.
They contain the label as well as a percentage score.
Annotations are shown as tags on the right together with a symbol indicating if the predictions match the annotations or not.

### Token classification

![Token classification view](../../_static/reference/webapp/token_classification.png)

In this task, predictions and annotations are displayed as highlights in the input text. To easily identify them at a glance, **annotations** are highlighted with the color of their corresponding label, while **predictions** are underlined with a solid line (see picture).

For datasets with available score, the solid line for **predictions** disappears when the **score filter** (in **Predictions filter** section) is applied.

### Text2Text

![Text2Text view](../../_static/reference/webapp/text2text.png)

In this task predictions and the annotation are given in a text field below the input text.
You can switch between prediction and annotation via the "_View annotation_"/"_View predictions_" buttons.
For the predictions you can find an associated score in the lower left corner.
If you have multiple predictions you can toggle between them using the arrows on the button of the record card.

## Metrics

![Metrics for Explore Mode](../../_static/reference/webapp/metrics_explore.png)

From the side bar you can access the [_Stats_ metrics](view_dataset_metrics.md#stats) that provide support for your analysis of the dataset.
