argilla/docs/how_to_guides/index.md, before:

---
description: These are the how-to guides for the Argilla SDK. They provide step-by-step instructions for common scenarios, including detailed explanations and code samples.
hide: toc
---

# How-to guides

These guides provide step-by-step instructions for common scenarios, including detailed explanations and code samples. They are divided into two categories: basic and advanced. The basic guides will help you get started with the core concepts of Argilla, while the advanced guides will help you explore more advanced features.

## Basic

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   __Manage users and credentials__

    ---

    Learn what they are and how to manage (create, read and delete) [`Users`](user.md) in Argilla.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](user.md)

-   __Manage workspaces__

    ---

    Learn what they are and how to manage (create, read and delete) [`Workspaces`](workspace.md) in Argilla.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](workspace.md)

-   __Create, update, and delete datasets__

    ---

    Learn what they are and how to manage (create, read and delete) [`Datasets`](dataset.md) and customize them using the `Settings` for `Fields`, `Questions`,  `Metadata` and `Vectors`.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](dataset.md)

-   __Add, update, and delete records__

    ---

    Learn what they are and how to add, update and delete the values for a [`Record`](record.md), which are made up of `Metadata`, `Vectors`, `Suggestions` and `Responses`.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](record.md)

-   __Distribute the annotation__

    ---

    Learn how to use Argilla's automatic task distribution to annotate as a team efficiently.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](distribution.md)

-   __Annotate a dataset__

    ---

    Learn how to use the Argilla UI to navigate datasets and submit responses.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](annotate.md)

-   __Query and filter a dataset__

    ---

    Learn how to query and filter a `Dataset`.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](query.md)

-   __Import and export datasets and records__

    ---

    Learn how to export your dataset or its records to Python, your local disk, or the Hugging face Hub.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](import_export.md)


</div>

## Advanced

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   __Use Markdown to format rich content__

    ---

    Learn how to use Markdown and HTML in TextFields to format chat conversations and allow for basic multi-modal support for images, audio, video and PDFs.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](use_markdown_to_format_rich_content.md)

-   __Migrate to Argilla V2__

    ---

    Learn how to migrate users, workspaces and datasets from Argilla V1 to V2.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](migrate_from_legacy_datasets.md)

</div>

Commit message:

[DOCS] Argilla webhooks (#5533)
# Description
<!-- Please include a summary of the changes and the related issue.
Please also include relevant motivation and context. List any
dependencies that are required for this change. -->


**Type of change**
<!-- Please delete options that are not relevant. Remember to title the
PR according to the type of change -->

- Documentation update

**How Has This Been Tested**
<!-- Please add some reference about how your feature has been tested.
-->

**Checklist**
<!-- Please go over the list and make sure you've taken everything into
account -->

- I added relevant documentation
- I followed the style guidelines of this project
- I did a self-review of my code
- I made corresponding changes to the documentation
- I confirm My changes generate no new warnings
- I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature
works
- I have added relevant notes to the CHANGELOG.md file (See
https://keepachangelog.com/)

---------

Co-authored-by: Sara Han <127759186+sdiazlor@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: David Berenstein <david.m.berenstein@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: José Francisco Calvo <josefranciscocalvo@gmail.com>

argilla/docs/how_to_guides/index.md, after:

---
description: These are the how-to guides for the Argilla SDK. They provide step-by-step instructions for common scenarios, including detailed explanations and code samples.
hide: toc
---

# How-to guides

These guides provide step-by-step instructions for common scenarios, including detailed explanations and code samples. They are divided into two categories: basic and advanced. The basic guides will help you get started with the core concepts of Argilla, while the advanced guides will help you explore more advanced features.

## Basic

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   __Manage users and credentials__

    ---

    Learn what they are and how to manage (create, read and delete) [`Users`](user.md) in Argilla.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](user.md)

-   __Manage workspaces__

    ---

    Learn what they are and how to manage (create, read and delete) [`Workspaces`](workspace.md) in Argilla.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](workspace.md)

-   __Create, update, and delete datasets__

    ---

    Learn what they are and how to manage (create, read and delete) [`Datasets`](dataset.md) and customize them using the `Settings` for `Fields`, `Questions`,  `Metadata` and `Vectors`.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](dataset.md)

-   __Add, update, and delete records__

    ---

    Learn what they are and how to add, update and delete the values for a [`Record`](record.md), which are made up of `Metadata`, `Vectors`, `Suggestions` and `Responses`.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](record.md)

-   __Distribute the annotation__

    ---

    Learn how to use Argilla's automatic task distribution to annotate as a team efficiently.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](distribution.md)

-   __Annotate a dataset__

    ---

    Learn how to use the Argilla UI to navigate datasets and submit responses.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](annotate.md)

-   __Query and filter a dataset__

    ---

    Learn how to query and filter a `Dataset`.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](query.md)

-   __Import and export datasets and records__

    ---

    Learn how to export your dataset or its records to Python, your local disk, or the Hugging face Hub.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](import_export.md)


</div>

## Advanced

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   __Use webhooks to respond to server events__

    ---

    Learn how to use Argilla webhooks to receive notifications about events in your Argilla Server.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](webhooks.md)

-   __Webhooks internals__

    ---

    Learn how Argilla webhooks are implented under the hood and the structure of the different events.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](webhooks_internals.md)

-   __Use Markdown to format rich content__

    ---

    Learn how to use Markdown and HTML in TextFields to format chat conversations and allow for basic multi-modal support for images, audio, video and PDFs.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](use_markdown_to_format_rich_content.md)

-   __Migrate to Argilla V2__

    ---

    Learn how to migrate users, workspaces and datasets from Argilla V1 to V2.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: How-to guide](migrate_from_legacy_datasets.md)

</div>
