argilla/docs/how_to_guides/user.md, before:

---
description: In this section, we will provide a step-by-step guide to show how to manage users and their credentials.
---

# User management

This guide provides an overview of user roles and credentials, explaining how to set up and manage users in Argilla.

A **user** in Argilla is an authorized person who, depending on their role, can use the Python SDK and access the UI in a running Argilla instance. We differentiate between three types of users depending on their role, permissions and needs: `owner`, `admin` and `annotator`.

=== "Overview"
    |                    | Owner      | Admin                     | Annotator |
        |-------------------------------|------------|---------------------------|-----------|
        | **Number**                    | Unlimited  | Unlimited                 | Unlimited |
        | **Create and delete workspaces** | Yes      | No                        | No        |
        | **Assign users to workspaces** | Yes        | No                        | No        |
        | **Create, configure, update, and delete datasets** | Yes | Only within assigned workspaces | No |
        | **Create, update, and delete users** | Yes  | No                        | No        |
        | **Provide feedback with Argila UI** | Yes   | Yes   | Yes       |


=== "Owner"

    The `owner` refers to the root user who created the Argilla instance. Using workspaces within Argilla proves highly beneficial for organizing tasks efficiently. So, the owner has full access to all workspaces and their functionalities:

    - **Workspace management**: It can create, read and delete a workspace.
    - **User management**: It can create a new user, assign it to a workspace, and delete it. It can also list them and search for a specific one.
    - **Dataset management**: It can create, configure, retrieve, update, and delete datasets.
    - **Annotation**: It can annotate datasets in the Argilla UI.
    - **Feedback**: It can provide feedback with the Argilla UI.

=== "Admin"

    An `admin` user can only access the workspaces it has been assigned to and cannot assign other users to it. An admin user has the following permissions:

    - **Dataset management**: It can create, configure, retrieve, update, and delete datasets only on the assigned workspaces.
    - **Annotation**: It can annotate datasets in the assigned workspaces via the Argilla UI.
    - **Feedback**: It can provide feedback with the Argilla UI.

=== "Annotator"

    An `annotator` user is limited to accessing only the datasets assigned to it within the workspace. It has two specific permissions:

    - **Annotation**: It can annotate the assigned datasets in the Argilla UI.
    - **Feedback**: It can provide feedback with the Argilla UI.

??? Question "Question: Who can manage users?"

    Only users with the `owner` role can manage (create, retrieve, delete) other users.

## Initial users and credentials

Depending on [your Argilla deployment](../getting_started/quickstart.md), the initial user with the `owner` role will vary.

* If you deploy on the Hugging Face Hub, the initial user will correspond to the Space owner (your personal account). The API key is automatically generated and can be copied from the "Settings" section of the UI.
* If you deploy with Docker, the default values for the environment variables are: USERNAME: argilla, PASSWORD: 12345678, API_KEY: argilla.apikey.

For the new users, the username and password are set during the creation process. The API key can be copied from the "Settings" section of the UI.

!!! info "Main Class"

    ```python
    rg.User(
        username="username",
        first_name="first_name",
        last_name="last_name",
        role="owner",
        password="password",
        client=client
    )
    ```
    > Check the [User - Python Reference](../reference/argilla/users.md) to see the attributes, arguments, and methods of the `User` class in detail.

## Get current user

To ensure you're using the correct credentials for managing users, you can get the current user in Argilla using the `me` attribute of the `Argilla` class.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

current_user = client.me
```

## Create a user

To create a new user in Argilla, you can define it in the `User` class and then call the `create` method. This method is inherited from the `Resource` base class and operates without modifications.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user_to_create = rg.User(
    username="my_username",
    password="12345678",
)

created_user = user_to_create.create()
```
!!! tip "Accessing attributes"
    Access the attributes of a user by calling them directly on the `User` object. For example, `user.id` or `user.username`.

## List users

You can list all the existing users in Argilla by accessing the `users` attribute on the `Argilla` class and iterating over them. You can also use `len(client.users)` to get the number of users.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

users = client.users

for user in users:
    print(user)
```
!!! tip "Notebooks"
    When using a notebook, executing `client.users` will display a table with `username`, `id`, `role`, and the last update as `updated_at`.

## Retrieve a user

You can retrieve an existing user from Argilla by accessing the `users` attribute on the `Argilla` class and passing the `username` or `id` as an argument. If the user does not exist, a warning message will be raised and `None` will be returned.

=== "By username"

    ```python
    import argilla as rg

    client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

    retrieved_user = client.users("my_username")
    ```

=== "By id"

    ```python
    import argilla as rg

    client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

    retrieved_user = client.users(id="<uuid-or-uuid-string>")
    ```

## Check user existence

You can check if a user exists. The `client.users` method will return `None` if the user was not found.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user = client.users("my_username")

if user is not None:
    pass
```

## List users in a workspace

You can list all the users in a workspace by accessing the `users` attribute on the `Workspace` class and iterating over them. You can also use `len(workspace.users)` to get the number of users by workspace.

> For further information on how to manage workspaces, check this [how-to guide](workspace.md).

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

workspace = client.workspaces('my_workspace')

for user in workspace.users:
    print(user)
```

## Add a user to a workspace

You can add an existing user to a workspace in Argilla by calling the `add_to_workspace` method on the `User` class.

> For further information on how to manage workspaces, check this [how-to guide](workspace.md).

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user = client.users('my_username')
workspace = client.workspaces('my_workspace')

added_user = user.add_to_workspace(workspace)
```

## Remove a user from a workspace

You can remove an existing user from a workspace in Argilla by calling the `remove_from_workspace` method on the `User` class.

> For further information on how to manage workspaces, check this [how-to guide](workspace.md).

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user = client.users('my_username')
workspace = client.workspaces('my_workspace')

removed_user = user.remove_from_workspace(workspace)
```

## Delete a user

You can delete an existing user from Argilla by calling the `delete` method on the `User` class.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user_to_delete = client.users('my_username')

deleted_user = user_to_delete.delete()
```

Commit message:

docs: update how-to guide

argilla/docs/how_to_guides/user.md, after:

---
description: In this section, we will provide a step-by-step guide to show how to manage users and their credentials.
---

# User management

This guide provides an overview of user roles and credentials, explaining how to set up and manage users in Argilla.

A **user** in Argilla is an authorized person who, depending on their role, can use the Python SDK and access the UI in a running Argilla instance. We differentiate between three types of users depending on their role, permissions and needs: `owner`, `admin` and `annotator`.

=== "Overview"
    |                    | Owner      | Admin                     | Annotator |
        |-------------------------------|------------|---------------------------|-----------|
        | **Number**                    | Unlimited  | Unlimited                 | Unlimited |
        | **Create and delete workspaces** | Yes      | No                        | No        |
        | **Assign users to workspaces** | Yes        | No                        | No        |
        | **Create, configure, update, and delete datasets** | Yes | Only within assigned workspaces | No |
        | **Create, update, and delete users** | Yes  | No                        | No        |
        | **Provide feedback with Argila UI** | Yes   | Yes   | Yes       |


=== "Owner"

    The `owner` refers to the root user who created the Argilla instance. Using workspaces within Argilla proves highly beneficial for organizing tasks efficiently. So, the owner has full access to all workspaces and their functionalities:

    - **Workspace management**: It can create, read and delete a workspace.
    - **User management**: It can create a new user, assign it to a workspace, and delete it. It can also list them and search for a specific one.
    - **Dataset management**: It can create, configure, retrieve, update, and delete datasets.
    - **Annotation**: It can annotate datasets in the Argilla UI.
    - **Feedback**: It can provide feedback with the Argilla UI.

=== "Admin"

    An `admin` user can only access the workspaces it has been assigned to and cannot assign other users to it. An admin user has the following permissions:

    - **Dataset management**: It can create, configure, retrieve, update, and delete datasets only on the assigned workspaces.
    - **Annotation**: It can annotate datasets in the assigned workspaces via the Argilla UI.
    - **Feedback**: It can provide feedback with the Argilla UI.

=== "Annotator"

    An `annotator` user is limited to accessing only the datasets assigned to it within the workspace. It has two specific permissions:

    - **Annotation**: It can annotate the assigned datasets in the Argilla UI.
    - **Feedback**: It can provide feedback with the Argilla UI.

??? Question "Question: Who can manage users?"

    Only users with the `owner` role can manage (create, retrieve, delete) other users.

## Initial users and credentials

Depending on [your Argilla deployment](../getting_started/quickstart.md), the initial user with the `owner` role will vary.

* If you deploy on the Hugging Face Hub, the initial user will correspond to the Space owner (your personal account). The API key is automatically generated and can be copied from the "Settings" section of the UI.
* If you deploy with Docker, the default values for the environment variables are: USERNAME: argilla, PASSWORD: 12345678, API_KEY: argilla.apikey.

For the new users, the username and password are set during the creation process. The API key can be copied from the "Settings" section of the UI.

!!! info "Main Class"

    ```python
    rg.User(
        username="username",
        first_name="first_name",
        last_name="last_name",
        role="owner",
        password="password",
        client=client
    )
    ```
    > Check the [User - Python Reference](../reference/argilla/users.md) to see the attributes, arguments, and methods of the `User` class in detail.

## Get current user

To ensure you're using the correct credentials for managing users, you can get the current user in Argilla using the `me` attribute of the `Argilla` class.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

current_user = client.me
```

## Create a user

To create a new user in Argilla, you can define it in the `User` class and then call the `create` method. This method is inherited from the `Resource` base class and operates without modifications.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user_to_create = rg.User(
    username="my_username",
    password="12345678",
)

created_user = user_to_create.create()
```
!!! tip "Accessing attributes"
    Access the attributes of a user by calling them directly on the `User` object. For example, `user.id` or `user.username`.

## List users

You can list all the existing users in Argilla by accessing the `users` attribute on the `Argilla` class and iterating over them. You can also use `len(client.users)` to get the number of users.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

users = client.users

for user in users:
    print(user)
```
!!! tip "Notebooks"
    When using a notebook, executing `client.users` will display a table with `username`, `id`, `role`, and the last update as `updated_at`.

## Retrieve a user

You can retrieve an existing user from Argilla by accessing the `users` attribute on the `Argilla` class and passing the `username` or `id` as an argument. If the user does not exist, a warning message will be raised and `None` will be returned.

=== "By username"

    ```python
    import argilla as rg

    client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

    retrieved_user = client.users("my_username")
    ```

=== "By id"

    ```python
    import argilla as rg

    client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

    retrieved_user = client.users(id="<uuid-or-uuid-string>")
    ```

## Check user existence

You can check if a user exists. The `client.users` method will return `None` if the user was not found.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user = client.users("my_username")

if user is not None:
    pass
```

## List users in a workspace

You can list all the users in a workspace by accessing the `users` attribute on the `Workspace` class and iterating over them. You can also use `len(workspace.users)` to get the number of users by workspace.

> For further information on how to manage workspaces, check this [how-to guide](workspace.md).

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

workspace = client.workspaces('my_workspace')

for user in workspace.users:
    print(user)
```

## Add a user to a workspace

You can add an existing user to a workspace in Argilla by calling the `add_to_workspace` method on the `User` class.

> For further information on how to manage workspaces, check this [how-to guide](workspace.md).

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user = client.users('my_username')
workspace = client.workspaces('my_workspace')

added_user = user.add_to_workspace(workspace)
```

## Remove a user from a workspace

You can remove an existing user from a workspace in Argilla by calling the `remove_from_workspace` method on the `User` class.

> For further information on how to manage workspaces, check this [how-to guide](workspace.md).

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user = client.users('my_username')
workspace = client.workspaces('my_workspace')

removed_user = user.remove_from_workspace(workspace)
```

## Update a user

You can update an existing user in Argilla by calling the `update` method on the `User` class. You can update the `username`, `first_name`, `last_name`, and `role` attributes.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user_to_update = client.users('my_username')

user.username = 'new_username'
user.first_name = 'new_first_name'
user.last_name = 'new_last_name'
user.role = 'admin'

updated_user = user_to_update.update()
```

## Delete a user

You can delete an existing user from Argilla by calling the `delete` method on the `User` class.

```python
import argilla as rg

client = rg.Argilla(api_url="<api_url>", api_key="<api_key>")

user_to_delete = client.users('my_username')

deleted_user = user_to_delete.delete()
```
