examples/webhooks/basic-webhooks/README.md, before:

## Description

[This space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/argilla/argilla-webhooks) is a basic server webhooks example to show how to set up webhook listeners using the argilla SDK.

The application defines three webhook listeners for the following events:

- Record events: `record.deleted`, `record.completed`
- Dataset events: `dataset.created`, `dataset.updated`, `dataset.deleted`, `dataset.published`
- Response events: `response.created`, `response.updated`

The events are stored in a queue and displayed in the JSON component and the incoming events is updated every second.

You can view the incoming events in the JSON component below.

This application is just a demonstration of how to use the Argilla webhook listeners. You can visit the
[Argilla documentation](https://docs.argilla.io/dev/how_to_guides/webhooks) for more information.

## Running the app

First create an HF space running the argilla server. Be sure the space is public.

Once the server is up and running, you duplicate the space and configure the following environment variables:

- `ARGILLA_API_URL`: The URL of the argilla server.
- `ARGILLA_API_KEY`: The API key to access the argilla server.

## Testing the app

Open the gradio application. You can see incoming events from the argilla server.

Commit message:

Example of webhooks using docker

examples/webhooks/basic-webhooks/README.md, after:

## Description

This is a basic webhook example to show how to configure webhook listeners using the argilla SDK

The application defines three webhook listeners for the following events:

- Record events: `record.deleted`, `record.completed`
- Dataset events: `dataset.created`, `dataset.updated`, `dataset.published`, `dataset.deleted`
- Response events: `response.created`, `response.updated`

You can visit the [Argilla documentation](https://docs.argilla.io/dev/how_to_guides/webhooks) for more information.

## Running the app

This example is intended to be used locally. You can check [this space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/argilla/argilla-webhooks)
for a remote example.

First, you must start the argilla server. We recommend you to use the docker installation. You can run the following commands to start the argilla server:
```bash
mkdir argilla && cd argilla
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argilla-io/argilla/main/examples/deployments/docker/docker-compose.yaml -o docker-compose.yaml
docker compose up -d
```

For more information on how to install the argilla server, please refer to the [argilla documentation](https://docs.argilla.io/latest/getting_started).

Once the argilla server is up and running, start the webhook server by running the following command:

```bash
ARGILLA_API_KEY=argilla.apikey \
WEBHOOK_SERVER_URL=http://host.docker.internal:8000 \
uvicorn main:server
```

The `ARGILLA_API_KEY` environment variable should be set to the API key of the argilla server.
The `WEBHOOK_SERVER_URL` environment variable should be set to the URL where the webhook server is running.
In this case, we are using `http://host.docker.internal:8000` because the webhook calls will be done inside a docker container.

The application will remove all existing webhook listeners and create new ones for the events mentioned above.

## Testing the app

When you start working with the argilla server, you can see the logs in the webhook server.
You can test the webhook listeners by creating, updating, and deleting datasets, responses and records in the argilla server.
