argilla/docs/community/index.md, before:

---
description: These are the tools and resources to be up-to-date with the Argilla development and contribute to the project.
hide:
    - toc
    - footer
---

We are an open-source community-driven project not only focused on building a great product but also on building a great community, where you can get support, share your experiences, and contribute to the project! We would love to hear from you and help you get started with Argilla.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   __Discord__

    ---

    In our Discord channels (#argilla-distilabel-general and #argilla-distilabel-help), you can get direct support from the community.


    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Discord ↗](http://hf.co/join/discord)

-   __Community Meetup__

    ---

    We host bi-weekly community meetups where you can listen in or present your work.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Community Meetup ↗](https://lu.ma/argilla-event-calendar)

-   __Changelog__

    ---

    The changelog is where you can find the latest updates and changes to the Argilla project.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Changelog ↗](https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla/blob/develop/argilla/CHANGELOG.md)

-   __Roadmap__

    ---

    We love to discuss our plans with the community. Feel encouraged to participate in our roadmap discussions.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Roadmap ↗](https://github.com/orgs/argilla-io/projects/10/views/1)

</div>

Commit message:

Gurubase moved to docs-community section

argilla/docs/community/index.md, after:

---
description: These are the tools and resources to be up-to-date with the Argilla development and contribute to the project.
hide:
    - toc
    - footer
---

We are an open-source community-driven project not only focused on building a great product but also on building a great community, where you can get support, share your experiences, and contribute to the project! We would love to hear from you and help you get started with Argilla.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

-   __Discord__

    ---

    In our Discord channels (#argilla-distilabel-general and #argilla-distilabel-help), you can get direct support from the community.


    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Discord ↗](http://hf.co/join/discord)

-   __Community Meetup__

    ---

    We host bi-weekly community meetups where you can listen in or present your work.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Community Meetup ↗](https://lu.ma/argilla-event-calendar)

-   __Changelog__

    ---

    The changelog is where you can find the latest updates and changes to the Argilla project.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Changelog ↗](https://github.com/argilla-io/argilla/blob/develop/argilla/CHANGELOG.md)

-   __Roadmap__

    ---

    We love to discuss our plans with the community. Feel encouraged to participate in our roadmap discussions.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Roadmap ↗](https://github.com/orgs/argilla-io/projects/10/views/1)

    __Gurubase__

    ---

    Gurubase is an AI-powered platform designed to answer technical questions using focused knowledge bases. Argilla Guru leverages data from Argilla's GitHub repository and documentation to provide answers to your questions.

    [:octicons-arrow-right-24: Ask Argilla Guru ↗](https://gurubase.io/g/argilla)

</div>
