docs/_source/tutorials/libraries/libraries.md, before:

# Libraries

These tutorials show you can use your favorite packages with Argilla.

````{grid} 1 1 2 2
:class-container: tuto-section-2
```{grid-item-card} FastAPI
:link: fastapi.md

FastAPI is a modern, fast (high-performance), web framework for building APIs with Python 3.7+ based on standard Python type hints.
```
```{grid-item-card} BentoML
:link: bentoml.md

BentoML is an open platform that simplifies ML model deployment and enables you to serve your models at production scale in minutes.
```
```{grid-item-card} DVC
:link: dvc.md

DVC is built to make ML models shareable and reproducible. It is designed to handle large files, data sets, machine learning models, and metrics as well as code.
```
```{grid-item-card} spaCy
:link: spacy.md

spaCy is a free open-source library for Natural Language Processing in Python.
```
```{grid-item-card} StanzaNLP
:link: stanza.md

Stanza is a collection of accurate and efficient tools for the linguistic analysis of many human languages.
```
```{grid-item-card} Hugging Face Transformers
:link: huggingface.md

Transformers provides APIs and tools to easily download and train state-of-the-art pretrained models.
```
```{grid-item-card} Disaggregators
:link: disaggregators.md

Addressing fairness and bias in machine learning models is more important than ever!
```
```{grid-item-card} Sentence Transformers
:link: sentencetransformers.md

SentenceTransformers is a Python framework for state-of-the-art sentence, text and image embeddings.
```
```{grid-item-card} SetFit
:link: setfit.md

SetFit is an efficient and prompt-free framework for few-shot fine-tuning of Sentence Transformers.
```
```{grid-item-card} flAIr
:link: flair.md

A very simple framework for state-of-the-art NLP. Developed by Humboldt University of Berlin and friends.
```
```{grid-item-card} Small-Text
:link: smalltext.md

Small-Text provides state-of-the-art Active Learning for Text Classification.
```
```{grid-item-card} modAL
:link: modal.md

modAL is an active learning framework for Python3, designed with modularity, flexibility and extensibility in mind.
```
```{grid-item-card} Classy Classification
:link: classyclassification.md

An intuitive approach to few-shot classification using sentence-transformers or spaCy models, or zero-shot classification with Huggingface.
```
```{grid-item-card} OpenAI
:link: openai.md

OpenAI is a suite of APIs powered by large language and vision models which perform a variety of natural language and visual tasks.
```

```{grid-item-card} Skweak
:link: skweak.md

Skweak: A software toolkit for weak supervision applied to NLP tasks, machine learning models, or even annotations from crowd-workers.
```
```{grid-item-card} Snorkel
:link: snorkel.md

A system for quickly generating training data with weak supervision.
```
```{grid-item-card} Transformers Interpret
:link: transformersinterpret.md

Transformers Interpret is a model explainability tool designed to work exclusively with the transformers package.
```
```{grid-item-card} Cleanlab
:link: cleanlab.md

The standard data-centric AI package for data quality and machine learning with messy, real-world data and labels.
```
```{grid-item-card} SHAP
:link: shap.md

SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) is a game theoretic approach to explain the output of any machine learning model.
```

```{grid-item-card} OpenAI
:link: openai.md

OpenAI is a suite of APIs powered by large language and vision models which perform a variety of natural language and visual tasks.
```
````

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:hidden:

fastapi.md
bentoml.md
dvc.md
colab.md

spacy.md
stanza.md

huggingface.md
disaggregators.md

sentencetransformers.md
flair.md
setfit.md

smalltext.md
modal.md
classyclassification.md
openai.md

skweak.md
snorkel.md

transformersinterpret
cleanlab
shap
openai
```

Commit message:

added colab refrence to libary overview

docs/_source/tutorials/libraries/libraries.md, after:

# Libraries

These tutorials show you can use your favorite packages with Argilla.

````{grid} 1 1 2 2
:class-container: tuto-section-2
```{grid-item-card} FastAPI
:link: fastapi.md

FastAPI is a modern, fast (high-performance), web framework for building APIs with Python 3.7+ based on standard Python type hints.
```
```{grid-item-card} BentoML
:link: bentoml.md

BentoML is an open platform that simplifies ML model deployment and enables you to serve your models at production scale in minutes.
```
```{grid-item-card} DVC
:link: dvc.md

DVC is built to make ML models shareable and reproducible. It is designed to handle large files, data sets, machine learning models, and metrics as well as code.
```
```{grid-item-card} Google Colab
:link: dvc.md

Colab notebooks allow you to combine executable code and rich text in a single document, along with images, HTML, LaTeX and more.
```
```{grid-item-card} spaCy
:link: spacy.md

spaCy is a free open-source library for Natural Language Processing in Python.
```
```{grid-item-card} StanzaNLP
:link: stanza.md

Stanza is a collection of accurate and efficient tools for the linguistic analysis of many human languages.
```
```{grid-item-card} Hugging Face Transformers
:link: huggingface.md

Transformers provides APIs and tools to easily download and train state-of-the-art pretrained models.
```
```{grid-item-card} Disaggregators
:link: disaggregators.md

Addressing fairness and bias in machine learning models is more important than ever!
```
```{grid-item-card} Sentence Transformers
:link: sentencetransformers.md

SentenceTransformers is a Python framework for state-of-the-art sentence, text and image embeddings.
```
```{grid-item-card} SetFit
:link: setfit.md

SetFit is an efficient and prompt-free framework for few-shot fine-tuning of Sentence Transformers.
```
```{grid-item-card} flAIr
:link: flair.md

A very simple framework for state-of-the-art NLP. Developed by Humboldt University of Berlin and friends.
```
```{grid-item-card} Small-Text
:link: smalltext.md

Small-Text provides state-of-the-art Active Learning for Text Classification.
```
```{grid-item-card} modAL
:link: modal.md

modAL is an active learning framework for Python3, designed with modularity, flexibility and extensibility in mind.
```
```{grid-item-card} Classy Classification
:link: classyclassification.md

An intuitive approach to few-shot classification using sentence-transformers or spaCy models, or zero-shot classification with Huggingface.
```
```{grid-item-card} OpenAI
:link: openai.md

OpenAI is a suite of APIs powered by large language and vision models which perform a variety of natural language and visual tasks.
```

```{grid-item-card} Skweak
:link: skweak.md

Skweak: A software toolkit for weak supervision applied to NLP tasks, machine learning models, or even annotations from crowd-workers.
```
```{grid-item-card} Snorkel
:link: snorkel.md

A system for quickly generating training data with weak supervision.
```
```{grid-item-card} Transformers Interpret
:link: transformersinterpret.md

Transformers Interpret is a model explainability tool designed to work exclusively with the transformers package.
```
```{grid-item-card} Cleanlab
:link: cleanlab.md

The standard data-centric AI package for data quality and machine learning with messy, real-world data and labels.
```
```{grid-item-card} SHAP
:link: shap.md

SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) is a game theoretic approach to explain the output of any machine learning model.
```

```{grid-item-card} OpenAI
:link: openai.md

OpenAI is a suite of APIs powered by large language and vision models which perform a variety of natural language and visual tasks.
```
````

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1
:hidden:

fastapi.md
bentoml.md
dvc.md
colab.md

spacy.md
stanza.md

huggingface.md
disaggregators.md

sentencetransformers.md
flair.md
setfit.md

smalltext.md
modal.md
classyclassification.md
openai.md

skweak.md
snorkel.md

transformersinterpret
cleanlab
shap
openai
```
