docs/getting_started/advanced_setup_guides.rst, before:

.. role:: raw-html-m2r(raw)
   :format: html

.. _advanced-setup-guides:

Advanced setup guides
=====================

Here we provide some advanced setup guides:

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

.. _setting-up-elasticsearch-via-docker:

Setting up Elasticsearch via docker
-----------------------------------

Setting up Elasticsearch (ES) via docker is straightforward.
Simply run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   docker run -d --name elasticsearch-for-rubrix -p 9200:9200 -p 9300:9300 -e "ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m" -e "discovery.type=single-node" docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-oss:7.10.2

This will create an ES docker container named *"elasticsearch-for-rubrix"* that will run in the background.

To see the logs of the container, you can run:

.. code-block:: bash

   docker logs elasticsearch-for-rubrix

Or you can stop/start the container via:

.. code-block:: bash

   docker stop elasticsearch-for-rubrix
   docker start elasticsearch-for-rubrix

.. warning::
   Keep in mind, if you remove your container with ``docker rm elasticsearch-for-rubrix``, you will loose all your datasets in Rubrix!

For more details about the ES installation with docker, see their `official documentation <https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/docker.html>`__.
For MacOS and Windows, Elasticsearch also provides `homebrew formulae <https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/brew.html>`__ and a `msi package <https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/windows.html>`__, respectively.
We recommend ES version 7.10 to work with Rubrix.


.. _server-configurations:

Server configurations
---------------------

By default, the Rubrix server will look for your ES endpoint at ``http://localhost:9200``.
But you can customize this by setting the ``ELASTICSEARCH`` environment variable.
Have a look at the list of available `environment variables`_ to further configure the Rubrix server.

Since the Rubrix server is built on fastapi, you can launch it using **uvicorn** directly:

.. code-block:: bash

   uvicorn rubrix:app

*(for Rubrix versions below 0.9 you can launch the server via)*

.. code-block:: bash

   uvicorn rubrix.server.server:app

For more details about fastapi and uvicorn, see `here <https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/deployment/manually/#run-a-server-manually-uvicorn>`_

Fastapi also provides beautiful REST API docs that you can check at `http://localhost:6900/api/docs <http://localhost:6900/api/docs>`__.

Environment variables
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can set following environment variables to further configure your server and client.

Server
""""""

- ``ELASTICSEARCH``: URL of the connection endpoint of the Elasticsearch instance (Default: http://localhost:9200 ).

- ``RUBRIX_ELASTICSEARCH_SSL_VERIFY``: If "False", disables SSL certificate verification when connection to the Elasticsearch backend.

- ``RUBRIX_NAMESPACE``: A prefix used to manage Elasticsearch indices. You can use this namespace to use the same Elasticsearch instance for several independent Rubrix instances.

- ``RUBRIX_DEFAULT_ES_SEARCH_ANALYZER``: Default analyzer for textual fields excluding the metadata (Default: "standard").

- ``RUBRIX_EXACT_ES_SEARCH_ANALYZER``: Default analyzer for ``*.exact`` fields in textual information (Default: "whitespace").

- ``METADATA_FIELDS_LIMIT``: Max number of fields in the metadata (Default: 50, max: 100).

- ``CORS_ORIGINS``: List of host patterns for CORS origin access.

- ``DOCS_ENABLED``: If False, disables openapi docs endpoint at */api/docs*.

Client
""""""

- ``RUBRIX_API_URL``: The default API URL when calling :meth:`rubrix.init`.

- ``RUBRIX_API_KEY``: The default API key when calling :meth:`rubrix.init`.

- ``RUBRIX_WORKSPACE``: The default workspace when calling :meth:`rubrix.init`.



.. _launching-the-web-app-via-docker:

Launching the web app via docker
--------------------------------

You can use vanilla docker to run our image of the web app.
First, pull the image from the `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com/>`_:

.. code-block:: shell

   docker pull recognai/rubrix

Then simply run it.
Keep in mind that you need a running Elasticsearch instance for Rubrix to work.
By default, the Rubrix server will look for your Elasticsearch endpoint at ``http://localhost:9200``.
But you can customize this by setting the ``ELASTICSEARCH`` environment variable.

.. code-block:: shell

   docker run -p 6900:6900 -e "ELASTICSEARCH=<your-elasticsearch-endpoint>" --name rubrix recognai/rubrix

To find running instances of the Rubrix server, you can list all the running containers on your machine:

.. code-block:: shell

   docker ps

To stop the Rubrix server, just stop the container:

.. code-block:: shell

   docker stop rubrix

If you want to deploy your own Elasticsearch cluster via docker, we refer you to the excellent guide on the `Elasticsearch homepage <https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/docker.html>`_

.. _launching-the-web-app-via-docker-compose:

Launching the web app via docker-compose
----------------------------------------

For this method you first need to install `Docker Compose <https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/>`__.

Then, create a folder:

.. code-block:: bash

   mkdir rubrix && cd rubrix

and launch the docker-contained web app with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   wget -O docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/recognai/rubrix/master/docker-compose.yaml && docker-compose up -d

This is a convenient way because it automatically includes an
`Elasticsearch <https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/>`__ instance, Rubrix's main persistent layer.

.. warning::
   Keep in mind, if you execute ``docker-compose down``, you will loose all your datasets in Rubrix!


.. _configure-elasticsearch-role-users:

Configure Elasticsearch role/users
----------------------------------

If you have an Elasticsearch instance and want to share resources with other applications, you can easily configure it for Rubrix.

All you need to take into account is:


* Rubrix will create its ES indices with the following pattern ``.rubrix*``. It's recommended to create a new role (e.g., rubrix) and provide it with all privileges for this index pattern.

* Rubrix creates an index template for these indices, so you may provide related template privileges to this ES role.

Rubrix uses the ``ELASTICSEARCH`` environment variable to set the ES connection.

You can provide the credentials using the following scheme:

.. code-block:: bash

      http(s)://user:passwd@elastichost

Below you can see a screenshot for setting up a new *rubrix* Role and its permissions:

:raw-html-m2r:`<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2518789/142883104-f4f20cf0-34a0-47ff-8ee3-ab9f4644271c.png"/>`


Change elasticsearch index analyzers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By default, for indexing text fields, Rubrix uses the `standard` analyzer for general search and the `whitespace`
analyzer for more exact queries (required by certain rules in the weak supervision module). If those analyzers
don't fit your use case, you can change them using the following environment variables:
``RUBRIX_DEFAULT_ES_SEARCH_ANALYZER`` and ``RUBRIX_EXACT_ES_SEARCH_ANALYZER``.

Note that provided analyzers names should be defined as built-in ones. If you want to use a
customized analyzer, you should create it inside an index_template matching Rubrix index names (`.rubrix*.records-v0),
and then provide the analyzer name using the specific environment variable.

.. _deploy-to-aws-instance-using-docker-machine:

Deploy to aws instance using docker-machine
-------------------------------------------

Setup an AWS profile
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``aws`` command cli must be installed. Then, type:

.. code-block:: shell

   aws configure --profile rubrix

and follow command instructions. For more details, visit `AWS official documentation <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html>`_

Once the profile is created (a new entry should be appear in file ``~/.aws/config``\ ), you can activate it via setting environment variable:

.. code-block:: shell

   export AWS_PROFILE=rubrix

Create docker machine (aws)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: shell

   docker-machine create --driver amazonec2 \
   --amazonec2-root-size 60 \
   --amazonec2-instance-type t2.large \
   --amazonec2-open-port 80 \
   --amazonec2-ami ami-0b541372 \
   --amazonec2-region eu-west-1 \
   rubrix-aws

Available ami depends on region. The provided ami is available for eu-west regions

Verify machine creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: shell

   $>docker-machine ls

   NAME                   ACTIVE   DRIVER      STATE     URL                        SWARM   DOCKER     ERRORS
   rubrix-aws             -        amazonec2   Running   tcp://52.213.178.33:2376           v20.10.7

Save asigned machine ip
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In our case, the assigned ip is ``52.213.178.33``

Connect to remote docker machine
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable the connection between the local docker client and the remote daemon, we must type following command:

.. code-block:: shell

   eval $(docker-machine env rubrix-aws)

Define a docker-compose.yaml
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: yaml

   # docker-compose.yaml
   version: "3"

   services:
     rubrix:
       image: recognai/rubrix
       ports:
         - "80:80"
       environment:
         ELASTICSEARCH: <elasticsearch-host_and_port>
       restart: unless-stopped

Pull image
^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: shell

   docker-compose pull

Launch docker container
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: shell

   docker-compose up -d

Accessing Rubrix
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In our case http://52.213.178.33


.. _install-from-master:

Install from master
-------------------

If you want the cutting-edge version of *Rubrix* with the latest changes and experimental features, follow the steps below in your terminal.
**Be aware that this version might be unstable!**

First, you need to install the master version of our python client:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install -U git+https://github.com/recognai/rubrix.git

Then, the easiest way to get the master version of our web app up and running is via docker-compose:

.. note::
    For now, we only provide the master version of our web app via docker.
    If you want to run the web app of the master branch **without** docker, we refer you to our :ref:`development-setup`.

.. code-block:: shell

    # get the docker-compose yaml file
    mkdir rubrix && cd rubrix
    wget -O docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/recognai/rubrix/master/docker-compose.yaml
    # use the master image of the rubrix container instead of the latest
    sed -i 's/rubrix:latest/rubrix:master/' docker-compose.yml
    # start all services
    docker-compose up

If you want to use vanilla docker (and have your own Elasticsearch instance running), you can just use our master image:

.. code-block:: shell

    docker run -p 6900:6900 -e "ELASTICSEARCH=<your-elasticsearch-endpoint>" --name rubrix recognai/rubrix:master

Commit message:

feat(configuraton): add elasticsearch ca_cert path variable (#1502)
* Add ca_cert path variable

* Fix

* Update src/rubrix/server/commons/settings.py

Co-authored-by: Francisco Aranda <frascuchon@gmail.com>

* Add to docs

* fix: include missing imports

* chore: fix transformers dep for dev

Co-authored-by: zel.a <zel.a@medlinx.online>
Co-authored-by: Anastasia <60486232+zelanastasia@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/getting_started/advanced_setup_guides.rst, after:

.. role:: raw-html-m2r(raw)
   :format: html

.. _advanced-setup-guides:

Advanced setup guides
=====================

Here we provide some advanced setup guides:

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

.. _setting-up-elasticsearch-via-docker:

Setting up Elasticsearch via docker
-----------------------------------

Setting up Elasticsearch (ES) via docker is straightforward.
Simply run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   docker run -d --name elasticsearch-for-rubrix -p 9200:9200 -p 9300:9300 -e "ES_JAVA_OPTS=-Xms512m -Xmx512m" -e "discovery.type=single-node" docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-oss:7.10.2

This will create an ES docker container named *"elasticsearch-for-rubrix"* that will run in the background.

To see the logs of the container, you can run:

.. code-block:: bash

   docker logs elasticsearch-for-rubrix

Or you can stop/start the container via:

.. code-block:: bash

   docker stop elasticsearch-for-rubrix
   docker start elasticsearch-for-rubrix

.. warning::
   Keep in mind, if you remove your container with ``docker rm elasticsearch-for-rubrix``, you will loose all your datasets in Rubrix!

For more details about the ES installation with docker, see their `official documentation <https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/docker.html>`__.
For MacOS and Windows, Elasticsearch also provides `homebrew formulae <https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/brew.html>`__ and a `msi package <https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/windows.html>`__, respectively.
We recommend ES version 7.10 to work with Rubrix.


.. _server-configurations:

Server configurations
---------------------

By default, the Rubrix server will look for your ES endpoint at ``http://localhost:9200``.
But you can customize this by setting the ``ELASTICSEARCH`` environment variable.
Have a look at the list of available `environment variables`_ to further configure the Rubrix server.

Since the Rubrix server is built on fastapi, you can launch it using **uvicorn** directly:

.. code-block:: bash

   uvicorn rubrix:app

*(for Rubrix versions below 0.9 you can launch the server via)*

.. code-block:: bash

   uvicorn rubrix.server.server:app

For more details about fastapi and uvicorn, see `here <https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/deployment/manually/#run-a-server-manually-uvicorn>`_

Fastapi also provides beautiful REST API docs that you can check at `http://localhost:6900/api/docs <http://localhost:6900/api/docs>`__.

Environment variables
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can set following environment variables to further configure your server and client.

Server
""""""

- ``ELASTICSEARCH``: URL of the connection endpoint of the Elasticsearch instance (Default: http://localhost:9200 ).

- ``RUBRIX_ELASTICSEARCH_SSL_VERIFY``: If "False", disables SSL certificate verification when connection to the Elasticsearch backend.

- ``RUBRIX_ELASTICSEARCH_CA_PATH``: Path to CA cert for ES host. For example: '/full/path/to/root-ca.pem' (Optional)

- ``RUBRIX_NAMESPACE``: A prefix used to manage Elasticsearch indices. You can use this namespace to use the same Elasticsearch instance for several independent Rubrix instances.

- ``RUBRIX_DEFAULT_ES_SEARCH_ANALYZER``: Default analyzer for textual fields excluding the metadata (Default: "standard").

- ``RUBRIX_EXACT_ES_SEARCH_ANALYZER``: Default analyzer for ``*.exact`` fields in textual information (Default: "whitespace").

- ``METADATA_FIELDS_LIMIT``: Max number of fields in the metadata (Default: 50, max: 100).

- ``CORS_ORIGINS``: List of host patterns for CORS origin access.

- ``DOCS_ENABLED``: If False, disables openapi docs endpoint at */api/docs*.

Client
""""""

- ``RUBRIX_API_URL``: The default API URL when calling :meth:`rubrix.init`.

- ``RUBRIX_API_KEY``: The default API key when calling :meth:`rubrix.init`.

- ``RUBRIX_WORKSPACE``: The default workspace when calling :meth:`rubrix.init`.



.. _launching-the-web-app-via-docker:

Launching the web app via docker
--------------------------------

You can use vanilla docker to run our image of the web app.
First, pull the image from the `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com/>`_:

.. code-block:: shell

   docker pull recognai/rubrix

Then simply run it.
Keep in mind that you need a running Elasticsearch instance for Rubrix to work.
By default, the Rubrix server will look for your Elasticsearch endpoint at ``http://localhost:9200``.
But you can customize this by setting the ``ELASTICSEARCH`` environment variable.

.. code-block:: shell

   docker run -p 6900:6900 -e "ELASTICSEARCH=<your-elasticsearch-endpoint>" --name rubrix recognai/rubrix

To find running instances of the Rubrix server, you can list all the running containers on your machine:

.. code-block:: shell

   docker ps

To stop the Rubrix server, just stop the container:

.. code-block:: shell

   docker stop rubrix

If you want to deploy your own Elasticsearch cluster via docker, we refer you to the excellent guide on the `Elasticsearch homepage <https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/docker.html>`_

.. _launching-the-web-app-via-docker-compose:

Launching the web app via docker-compose
----------------------------------------

For this method you first need to install `Docker Compose <https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/>`__.

Then, create a folder:

.. code-block:: bash

   mkdir rubrix && cd rubrix

and launch the docker-contained web app with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

   wget -O docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/recognai/rubrix/master/docker-compose.yaml && docker-compose up -d

This is a convenient way because it automatically includes an
`Elasticsearch <https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/>`__ instance, Rubrix's main persistent layer.

.. warning::
   Keep in mind, if you execute ``docker-compose down``, you will loose all your datasets in Rubrix!


.. _configure-elasticsearch-role-users:

Configure Elasticsearch role/users
----------------------------------

If you have an Elasticsearch instance and want to share resources with other applications, you can easily configure it for Rubrix.

All you need to take into account is:


* Rubrix will create its ES indices with the following pattern ``.rubrix*``. It's recommended to create a new role (e.g., rubrix) and provide it with all privileges for this index pattern.

* Rubrix creates an index template for these indices, so you may provide related template privileges to this ES role.

Rubrix uses the ``ELASTICSEARCH`` environment variable to set the ES connection.

You can provide the credentials using the following scheme:

.. code-block:: bash

      http(s)://user:passwd@elastichost

Below you can see a screenshot for setting up a new *rubrix* Role and its permissions:

:raw-html-m2r:`<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2518789/142883104-f4f20cf0-34a0-47ff-8ee3-ab9f4644271c.png"/>`


Change elasticsearch index analyzers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By default, for indexing text fields, Rubrix uses the `standard` analyzer for general search and the `whitespace`
analyzer for more exact queries (required by certain rules in the weak supervision module). If those analyzers
don't fit your use case, you can change them using the following environment variables:
``RUBRIX_DEFAULT_ES_SEARCH_ANALYZER`` and ``RUBRIX_EXACT_ES_SEARCH_ANALYZER``.

Note that provided analyzers names should be defined as built-in ones. If you want to use a
customized analyzer, you should create it inside an index_template matching Rubrix index names (`.rubrix*.records-v0),
and then provide the analyzer name using the specific environment variable.

.. _deploy-to-aws-instance-using-docker-machine:

Deploy to aws instance using docker-machine
-------------------------------------------

Setup an AWS profile
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``aws`` command cli must be installed. Then, type:

.. code-block:: shell

   aws configure --profile rubrix

and follow command instructions. For more details, visit `AWS official documentation <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html>`_

Once the profile is created (a new entry should be appear in file ``~/.aws/config``\ ), you can activate it via setting environment variable:

.. code-block:: shell

   export AWS_PROFILE=rubrix

Create docker machine (aws)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: shell

   docker-machine create --driver amazonec2 \
   --amazonec2-root-size 60 \
   --amazonec2-instance-type t2.large \
   --amazonec2-open-port 80 \
   --amazonec2-ami ami-0b541372 \
   --amazonec2-region eu-west-1 \
   rubrix-aws

Available ami depends on region. The provided ami is available for eu-west regions

Verify machine creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: shell

   $>docker-machine ls

   NAME                   ACTIVE   DRIVER      STATE     URL                        SWARM   DOCKER     ERRORS
   rubrix-aws             -        amazonec2   Running   tcp://52.213.178.33:2376           v20.10.7

Save asigned machine ip
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In our case, the assigned ip is ``52.213.178.33``

Connect to remote docker machine
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To enable the connection between the local docker client and the remote daemon, we must type following command:

.. code-block:: shell

   eval $(docker-machine env rubrix-aws)

Define a docker-compose.yaml
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: yaml

   # docker-compose.yaml
   version: "3"

   services:
     rubrix:
       image: recognai/rubrix
       ports:
         - "80:80"
       environment:
         ELASTICSEARCH: <elasticsearch-host_and_port>
       restart: unless-stopped

Pull image
^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: shell

   docker-compose pull

Launch docker container
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: shell

   docker-compose up -d

Accessing Rubrix
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In our case http://52.213.178.33


.. _install-from-master:

Install from master
-------------------

If you want the cutting-edge version of *Rubrix* with the latest changes and experimental features, follow the steps below in your terminal.
**Be aware that this version might be unstable!**

First, you need to install the master version of our python client:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install -U git+https://github.com/recognai/rubrix.git

Then, the easiest way to get the master version of our web app up and running is via docker-compose:

.. note::
    For now, we only provide the master version of our web app via docker.
    If you want to run the web app of the master branch **without** docker, we refer you to our :ref:`development-setup`.

.. code-block:: shell

    # get the docker-compose yaml file
    mkdir rubrix && cd rubrix
    wget -O docker-compose.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/recognai/rubrix/master/docker-compose.yaml
    # use the master image of the rubrix container instead of the latest
    sed -i 's/rubrix:latest/rubrix:master/' docker-compose.yml
    # start all services
    docker-compose up

If you want to use vanilla docker (and have your own Elasticsearch instance running), you can just use our master image:

.. code-block:: shell

    docker run -p 6900:6900 -e "ELASTICSEARCH=<your-elasticsearch-endpoint>" --name rubrix recognai/rubrix:master
